Motion of the earth

In order to create a computational solution, first we must understand the scenario from a mathematical 
perspective.

For the situation of modelling Apollo 13's return flight, we can make some assumptions about important
variables to consider. 

In the Quiz titled "What's Important", the instructor lists the following 

Mass of craft: Not important
Size of moon: Somewhat important
Motion of the moon: Vital
Size of the earth: Vital
Modtion of the earth: Somewhat
3D : Somewhat (Reason being the flight path looks planar in a 3d perspective) 


One also needs to have a solid handle of trigonometry.

Remember that to convert from degrees to radians multiply by Pi/180
degrees * Pi/180 = Radians
For vice versa, simply invert the conversion. So 
radians *  180/Pi =  degrees. 

Also remember that Sin(angle) = opposite side/hypotenuse
                   Cos(angle) = adjacent side/hypotensue
                   Tan(angle) opposite side / adjacent side
                   
Now we get started setting up the scenario. 

We need a way to represent x and y coordinates. This is shown in the Quiz titled: "Motion of the Moon"

we need to represent this in the form as follows

x = A * cos(B * x)
y = A * Sin(B * x) 

(Hint for those doing this problem, cosine and sine operations can only operate on unitless numbers)
Additionally, you are talking about coordinates, what units are typically used for this? 

The next topic is the derivative. This is a basic calculus concept that has a very important role in the
study of calculus. A derivative is a rate of change. Always remember this.

Now this brings us the mathematical representation of derivatives. When you look at a graph and you 
have an increasingly small change in x where it is virtually zero but not quite, you can find the 
"instantaneous rate of change".

So you start at a time t and you take a time step so that the end point is t + h. Than the difference
taken between those two points would look like this:
f(t+h) - f(t) 

Then you divide by a change in h so the derivative formula should look like this:

(f(t+h) - f(t))/h

But now you have to bring h to 0. So what do you do?

Simple, multiply out the terms for f(t+h) and you should find out the one of the terms cancels out with
f(t)!

NOTE: IF you dont have a scenario where the f(t) is elimanated there is an issue with your calculation. 

Now all the terms that are left over should have an h term within them. Which means you cancel the h's.

The rest should take care of itself. 


Newtons Second Lae

Now we can get to the meat and potatoes. 

This law is represented by the formula

F = m*a. 

where m is in kg and a is in m/s/s. A is also the derivative of velocity and the second derivative of position

An example of derivatives is shown in the "Derivative Overview" video. Given a velocity map, you should find the rate 
of change of the velocity map. What do you call a change in velocity?
